Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture and the previous lectures were able to extract a page out
of a PD F and actually rotated by 90 degrees and were able to save it in a newly created PDA file.
Right.
This lecture we're going to do something a little bit different.
Instead of reading one page what we're going to do here we're going to read multiple pages.
So think of it you know it's kind of a mini exercise to practice our for loop kind of skills.
Guys remember if you want to repeat something more than one time we just use for loops to actually extract
multiple pages.
Let's go ahead and see how can we do that.
So what we could do and say F equals two.
We're going to open our again files.
So if you press tab that should show us all the files you must have contended here.
There's tons of information.
And here we're looking for you know this PDA file Harvard Business School dot PD F and we can open this
file for reading purposes.
Great shift enter.
Looks good.
And what we could do after.
We're going to say OK we're going to create our right read PBF object equal to PD f file reader and
we're going to pass along here our our file f enter.
Looks good.
And what we could do here in order to read more than one page that we what we're going to do we're going
to simply create a for loop.
Right.
And that for loop will pass along onto every single page.
All right.
So how can we do that.
What we could do again.
Okay num page which is a number of pages which need to extract it.
Right.
So to do that we're going to say OK let's go ahead to our EPD F which is our object here base of here.
And what we could do going to take a dot num pages that should obtain for us how many pages are there
in the PDA shift enter and if we actually try to obtain or visualize what's on page in it is is actually
we have eight pages which makes sense.
We were expecting something on this.
So now we know how many pages we have.
That's kind of the our full loop right.
So what we could do here we're gonna say OK for Page in range if you guys remember we're going to use
range and if you say range 8 which is range num page that would help us go ahead and actually loop across
every single page contained within our hour PDA document.
So what we could did here say OK for Page in range num pages.
OK.
So every time we're going to say OK page we'll have kind of certain indices right.
So we can with Page zero one two three four and so on so forth.
Right.
OK.
So what we could do after we say OK let's extract or let's get page.
Right.
Using pretty much the exact same step as we have done in the past it's actually go up and see how how
did we do it.
How did you actually extract the text out of just one single page.
Because remember this was the command to extract just one single page right.
Let's take it exactly the same but we're just going to make it you know and then and change it a little
bit to make it or to put it in an in a for loop.
So let's go here and press control.
All right.
And that's pretty much it.
So what we have done here we're going to go ahead and to our readers if we're going to Kent get page
but here instead of having a specific number one two three whatever I actually need to get my index
here.
So here I called my index page.
So let's go here and put this out here.
Right.
And then apply the exact text it's exactly the same as before.
But here I don't want to have six.
Let's make it sample page text or maybe make it.
That's I call it here in the notes one page text because this is just a single page.
All right.
When we start the loop we can start the loop with an index zero so page will have number zero.
So I'm gonna go here say OK.
Get page of zero which is our first page and extract text out of it.
And that will be our first page.
Go up and keep repeating page one page two page three and so on so forth.
All right.
So the problem here is that we haven't done anything with it right.
So what we need to do is that we need.
We're going to we're going to create an empty list.
All right.
And every time I'm going to read text out of here I'm going to append it to my kind of empty.
Think of it as an accumulator.
If you guys remember that concept so I can say okay PD if that's outside the loop PBF underscore text
on this call could all just to indicate you know that's all the information we need that's kind of an
empty list every time I'm going to go ahead extractor page and simply appended to our PD f text all
I could do and say Okay PD f underscore text on the score all every time I'm going to extract one page
text and simply come here and append it to our one page text press again tab there will autocomplete
Okay that's pretty much it.
Again we created an empty kind of you know list here every time.
We're gonna go ahead create a loop.
Go ahead read our page extract text out of it.
Take that page and appended to our empty kind of list.
And that's it.
That's pretty much it.
To shift enter.
All right.
Looks good.
Took a little bit of time that that's a good sign that means you know there is a loop that took some
time in here.
All right let's go ahead and actually visualize how mean what are the lengths of our our list here.
It's actually copy that pasted here.
Shift enter the eight.
Which is good.
And maybe let's go ahead and actually visualize what's what's happening here.
So if you press control V which is PDA text on which is you know kind of all the accumulated all the
text from all the pages.
And if you press shift enter here we go.
So that's pretty much.
This is our page.
Okay.
And then there is comma.
Right.
And then there is this is kind of our second page.
And there is a comma.
And this is our third page.
All right.
And there is a comma right.
And this again next page.
And here we go.
This this is simply the Empire PD f contained of the texts out of typedef has been kind of you know
obtained using the using our for loop in here.
All right.
OK.
And that's pretty much all what I have for this lecture.
I hope you guys enjoyed it.
What we could do here is I wanted to.
I want you guys again to go ahead here and I don't want it to extract all the pages with it within the
PDA.
What I want you guys to do is to simply extract the first four pages only out of the PDA.
All right.
So instead of sitting here nine pages to simply all numbers I wanted to extract only four pages.
Please go ahead pause a video and I'll see you guys after the challenge.
All right.
I hope you guys were able to figure out the challenge what else you guys to do is to simply instead
of extracting all the pages I just wanted to extend the first four pages only.
So what we could do here we can say OK instead of reading a signing on pages equal PDA filed nine pages
which is eight.
Let's go ahead and maybe override that.
Let's go ahead and maybe set this to four.
Right let's split shift entered shift enter and shift enter.
You'll find that he would have been updated to four and he put the f text.
All you guys would find that this is simply our first page here.
This is our second page.
This is kind of our third page forward.
And this is our fourth page.
And here we go.
You'll find that we actually like stopped here which is great.
OK.
Right.
And that's pretty much the challenge.
Let's go back and actually set it back just for you guys when you access the documents and that's very
much overhead for this lecture.
I hope you guys enjoyed it.
In the next lecture I'm going to walk you through how can we actually add a watermark to a certain PBF
and that should conclude our our project.
I hope you guys enjoy this lecture and see you in the next one.